# _Wrkforce_

- Project Name: _Wrkforce_
- Contact Email: *tom@rungs.com*
- Project participants:
  - _Tom Varney (tom@rungs.com) will focus full-time on this project ensuring the original vision is carried out._
  - _Mike Hostetler(VP of Enterprise Technology @ Cars.com) will work as CTO & Product Manager on this project_
- Projected duration: _3 months_
- Projected effort: _4 people over 3 months_ - 1436 Labor Hours
- Pre-project effort: _2 persons/4 months_
- Requested PKT contribution: _$195,000 USD_
  - $195,000 USD for development of the project
  - Equivalent to 9,750,000 pkt requested @ $0.02
  - Legal, accounting, and administrative will be covered under this amount
  - 2,500,000 PKT for funding of community projects.
- PKT address to pay to: _pkt1qtge3dqvuscp8v2x0xewyjj5ttutykjcvwq4l65_

## Project summary

To enable more efficient, smooth, and rapid deployment of Network Steward funds by engaging the pkteer community to help guide the process through a weighted voting system.

### Registration process

A web platform will be developed wherein community members can register and vote.

- Account holders will be given the option to present personal identifying documents (KYC) to prove that they are not using fake accounts.
- Account holders will also be given the option to associate one or more PKT addresses with their account by making micro-transactions from those addresses.

### Funding rounds and submissions

During the activity of the fund, a funding round will be opened every 2 weeks. The budget of each round will be announced at opening time. The budget will be adapted based on the team's qualitative evaluation of proposals from the previous round - so as to avoid the risk of large rounds which bring only a few low quality applications.

During the active period of the fund, submission will be open at all times. Applicants who have submitted an application once and have not been accepted will be able to submit again in following rounds, with any changes they choose to make. Each applicant will be entitled to submit one application per round only, and applicants, as recipients of payment from Rungs LLC, will need to be KYCd before applying.

### Voting

Voting will be open to all registered participants, KYCd or not, at all times while the fund is active. Each registered user has a "number of votes" which are applied to the proposal when the user votes. The number of votes is defined as follows:

1. The user has the number of votes given by the current balance of their proven addresses divided by the sum of balance of all addresses proven by registered users on the platform.
2. If the person has done KYC then they have an additional: one, divided by the number of people who did KYC, votes.

### Winner selection

Winners will be selected in a way which seeks to maximize the "sum of satisfied votes" while being simple and understandable. The process will be for projects to be ranked by sum of votes divided by budget, then winners selected by iterating down the list until adding the next project would go over budget.

### Signing process

Winning projects will be presented a grant agreement to sign which will include a declaration of compliance with legal and ethical requirements. On top of each project, a 10% flat administrative fee will be added to the budget. This will cover labor, legal expenses, hosting, and additional unforseen expenses that may arise with the ongoing operation of the platform.

### Transparency and auditing

Every 90 days a 3rd party auditor will be hired by Wrkforce to come in under NDA to analyze votes and payment distributions to verify accuracy. This auditor will also attest to the community whether or not they believe the vote to be truthful.

This audit will be carried out by radicallyopensecurity.com on an on-going basis.

### GDPR Compliance & Data Security

The project will be built with the necessary functionality to comply with GDPR. Request for cookie acceptance will be available on all public web pages. Users will have the ability to submit a request for all of their data to be deleted from the system.

Additionally, the system will be constructed with all data being encrypted at rest in the database.

## Team and Past Work

_Tom Varney has been in the digital marketing space for the past decade. During this time he has managed more than $60,000,000 in total ad spend across the major advertising channels. He has started several of his own companies and worked with startups to $1b+ Fortune 500 companies. He has created self-sustaining human resource systems and worked across virtually every medium in digital marketing from paid to organic. He has also organically grown diverse communities from scratch and implemented powerful game mechanics to spur growth and engagement._

_Mike Hostetler is a leader and technologist residing in Chicago, Illinois. He is passionate about Remote Work, Work Operations, Open Source Software, JavaScript and all things Web. He currently works as VP of Enterprise Technology at Cars.com, a leading two-sided digital marketplace in the automotive industry. With over 20 years of technology experience, Mike has worked across many industries including government, energy, telecommunications and publishing. As an Entrepreneur, Mike built a leading JavaScript consultancy which he exited in 2015._

## Project deliverables

- [x] New open source software
  - Which license(s) which you will use:
    - [ ] [GPL-3.0-or-later](https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-3.0-or-later.html)
    - [x] [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)
    - [ ] [GPL-2.0-only](https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-2.0-only.html)
    - If your license(s) is/are not shown, please add them using the [SPDX license list](https://spdx.org/licenses/)
  - The maintainer of this software will be: _Mike Hostetler_
  - The software will be hosted in: *https://github.com/epic-creative/wrkforce*
- [ ] Contributions to existing software
  - List software projects
    - [ ] [cjdns](https://github.com/cjdelisle/cjdns)
    - [ ] [yggdrasil-go](https://github.com/yggdrasil-network/yggdrasil-go)
    - [ ] [PacketCrypt](https://github.com/cjdelisle/PacketCrypt)
    - [ ] [pktd](https://github.com/pkt-cash/pktd)
    - If the project is not shown, please add it with a link to its code repository
- [ ] Other deliverables (please describe)

The deliverables from the project to the Network Steward will be reports outlining the management level view of Wrkforce from the perspective of company which is managing the crypto assets for development of the software and on-going reports on what projects have been funded.

Each project/campaign/task delivers tangible outcomes relevant to the scope of the proposed initiative, and is paid incrementally based on the process developed for each initiative type. This will all be controlled by democratic vote by PKT community members which will register on the platfrom to participate.

Each deliverable report from the Company will include:

1. The balance of payments to Wrkforce.
1. The amount of money which was converted from PKT during the reported period.
1. For each event of selling PKT by the Company, the following information:
   1. Date
   1. Amount of PKT
   1. Strike price
   1. Purpose (administrative costs in development stage, development time, design, and build-out of work process templates primarily)
   1. Balance of PKT, USD, and other assets remaining at that time.
1. An overview of the financial status of the project, including a breakdown of costs (including administrative costs)
1. The composition of the team responsible for the development of the project, brief description of tasks and responsibilities and total hours worked.
1. Full disclosure on funded initiatives.
1. Attestation by a legal representative which confirms:
   1. That the above transaction and balance information is truly accurate
   1. That the company maintains honest integrity throughout the duration of the project

## Success criteria

- Community able to actively propose initiatives and have them executed on
- Community members able to craft proposals and have them evaluated to begin work towards completing them
- Community members able to be compensated for work done to continually focus on growth of the project
- Functional platform for all future suggestions and work to be organized through any legal purpose which is voted by the community
- Community adoption of the platform to have their voices heard and an incentivization model to promote further utilization and subsequent engagement
- Marketplace that is primed to attract high quality talent to facilitate on-going community growth
- Effectively eliminate the need to hire outside companies/agencies by providing a purely community driven option

## Milestones

### Milestone 0 (Kickoff)

Pre-Project Effort:

- Analysis of workforce alignment problems in relation to the ongoing growth of the PKT community.
- Development of vision & concept to solve workforce problems for the PKT community.
- Mockup of workflow and planning of engine required to achieve solution to community growth dilemma.
- Organization of team to execute on the plan to achieve the vision by building open source software for the PKT community.
- Cost estimation for labor required to execute on the plan to achieve the vision.
- Procurement of Network Steward proposal to acquire funding to achieve the vision by executing on the plan by developing the software.

Additional Pre-Project Effort:

- Legal representative cleared (related to PKT not being identified as a security)
- Qualified financial auditor relationship established.
- PKT Marketing Plan developed by Tom Varney to be used to prioritize & create work templates to execute on the plan.

After the project is accepted, the Network Steward will pay $30,000 USD

### Milestone 1

Setup & Design of Project

#### Success criteria

The Success Criteria for Milestone 1 will be completion of the initial Setup & Design for the project.

Including:

- Application Structure - user workflow diagrams - 26 Hours
- Setup of Design Templates - 24 Hours
- Figma based High Fidelity design prototype's - 42 Hours
- Figma based Clickable walkthrough of the entire application - 115 Hours
- Set up and run 10 user testing interviews with members of the PKT community - 30 Hours
- Results from user testing included in final Figma Prototypes - 20 Hours

Total Hours: 257

#### Payout

After a report is delivered on this milestone and it is approved by the NS, the NS will send $36,000 USD.

### Milestone 2

Backend App, API, Login & Dashboard

#### Success criteria

The Success Criteria for Milestone 2 will be completion of the initial Backend Application for the project.

Including:

- General Account Context - 53 Hours
- Workflow Context - 59 Hours
- Project Context - 67 Hours
- Dashboard UI - 47 Hours
- Security Setup - 45 Hours
- Usability Features - 36 Hours

Total Hours: 307

Users will be able to do the following:

- View the implemented app landing page running on a production webserver available on the Internet
- Create an account with username/password and via Google OAuth integration
- Login & Logout via created account credentials
- Retrieve a forgotten password
- Link an account created via Google OAuth with a username & password
- Create an Organization
- Invite another user to an Organization
- Manage your account settings, including account rewards

#### Payout

After a report is delivered on this milestone and it is approved by the NS, the NS will send $40,000 USD.

### Milestone 3

Project Management Engine

#### Success criteria

The Success Criteria for Milestone 3 will be completion of the Job & Trigger Process Flow for the project.

Including:

- Design & Implement Project Engine - 101 Hours
- Full test suite for Project engine - 79 Hours
- Job Management UI & Reporting - 57 Hours
- Implement Job Triggers, Public Form API - 104 Hours

Total Hours: 341 Hours

This milestone is largely backend due to the need to design, implement and test the core project & job management engine. This milestone will create the Project engine, but will not include the full Project UI. The acceptance criteria will include a demo to the Network Steward showing the Project and Job manager. The following milestone will complete the User Interface for the Project and Job Manager.

#### Payout

After a report is delivered on this milestone and it is approved by the NS, the NS will send $44,000 USD.

### Milestone 4

Project UI, Project Brief and Voting management interface for the project.

#### Success criteria

The Success Criteria for Milestone 4 will be completion of the Project UI, Job Management and Project Brief for the project.

Including:

- Project Brief - 32 Hours
- Project Job creation and management - 146 Hours
- Project Voting - 54 Hours
- Project Success Selection - 71 Hours
- Voting KYC - 35 Hours
- Voting Funding Mechanism - 40 Hours
- Notifications Integration - 88 Hours
- Reporting Integration - 65 Hours

Total Hours: 531 Hours

This milestone will wrap up the development of the project and allow PKT community members to vote on proposed projects. It will also fully integrate the notification system and reporting system to keep users updated and an accurate track record of funded projects.

#### Payout

After a report is delivered on this milestone and it is approved by the NS, the NS will send $20,000 USD.

### Milestone 5

Initial funding round from the Network Steward to start funding community projects.

#### Success criteria

The Success Criteria for Milestone 5 will be completion of Wrkforce to begin funding community projects.

- Platform developed and ready for use.
- Voting system developed and ready for use.

#### Payout

After a report is delivered on this milestone and it is approved by the NS, the NS will send 2,500,000 PKT. Additional funding rounds will be requested when 15% of the funds contributed by the Network Steward for funding individual projects remain.

### Subsequent Milestones

As necessary, additional milestones are added until the available budget in PKT is allocated to projects. Subsequent milestones (those beyond milestone 5) will continue to happen along the same formula as described above. New projects will continue to be submitted until the entire budget has been allocated and regular reports on projects will continue to be made until the funds have been dispursed.

## Disclosure

I hereby submit this application in good faith and I attest that I have made no effort, nor do I
intend to make effort, influence the Network Steward to accept this or any other project I have
submitted.

_Please check one or more:_

1. Conflicts
1. [x] An organization is receiving the funds
1. [ ] Organization has financial relationships with one or more reviewers: _specify whom_
1. [x] Organization has no financial relationships with any reviewers
1. [ ] An individual is receiving the funds
1. [ ] Individual works for same organization as one or more reviewers: _specify whom_
1. [ ] Individual has other financial relationships with one or more reviewers: _specify whom_
1. [ ] Individual does not work for the same organization as any reviewer
1. No Pumping
1. [ ] Project results will present information which might lead to PKT price speculation

   - If selected, please attach a paragraph detailing the information which will be presented and any steps which will be taken to prevent this from potentially misleading the public.

1. [x] Project results will not present information which might lead to PKT price speculation

## Use of Resources

Each milestone report will be accompanied by:

- [x] Itemization of project expenditures, including description, date and price (in national currency)
  - [ ] Justification of this itemization in an audit certificate
- [x] Dates when PKT was converted to national currency
  - [ ] Justification of this conversion in an audit certificate
- [ ] An audit certificate from a qualified financial auditor
  - _If yes, please provide name of the auditor_: \***\*\_\_\_\*\***

It is also worth noting that we are estimating our hourly labor costs for this proposal and project at $100 per hour versus previously funded Network Steward projects at the rate of $125 per hour to remain competitive and to ensure the best possible use of Network Steward resources and funding.

> If there is any other information which you can agree to provide that will help the network steward validate your use of resources, please add it here.

### Partial milestones

If it happens that I have satisfied all of the criteria for a milestone but have not provided
justification of all resources allocated _(choose one)_:

- [x] I will deduct the un-justified amount from the amount requested for the milestone
- [ ] I will request the milestone be paid in full anyway

## Legal

The applicant understands that the network steward is not a legal entity and no part of this
project constitutes any form of legal agreement. The applicant accepts that the network steward
exists thanks to the effort of volunteers and the applicant has no reasonable expectation of any
action, payment or communication from the network steward at any time. For their part, the
applicant has no binding commitment or obligation at any time as a result of their participation
in this project.

## Response to Network Steward Guidance On Proposal:

### More agility

**_Network Steward Guidance_**

The structure of the project is such that it appears as though all 5 milestones must be complete before the first sub-projects can be processed. This is envisioned as 3 months but from our experiences of previous projects, this can be as much as a year or even more.

Furthermore, without iterative test cycles in front of real users, there is no evidence that when the platform is complete, it will address the needs of the community.

As an alternative, we propose that the team might setup a platform such as Discourse forum, and author a set of proceedures for managing a mostly manual register/KYC/proposal/vote processes through the forum. Then as the first few proposal cycles pass, the team may collect feedback and create a plan for improving the technology to make the process more automatic.

This would, in principle, allow for first sub-projects to start within 2 to 3 weeks of kickoff.

**_Wrkforce Team Response_**

While this sounds good in theory, the reality is the admin and legal setup for this project will take longer than this (2-3 weeks after kickoff) to achieve and maintain compliance, security over user data, and to maintain the trust and legitimacy of the Network Steward and PKT Network.

By taking this route we would effecrtively put our personal reputations on the line in the eyes of the community and expose ourselves to legal liability not in alignment with our goals or the goals of the PKT network.

It is also worth noting that our proposal has been in the works since July 2021 on behalf of the PKT Network with many iterations along the way to achieve full alignment in an effort to bridge the gap of talent and under-utilized Network Steward funds. To reduce that to a manually managed project by project basis would be laborious and not in alignment with the proposal above or the vision we had when crafting it.

We do plan on getting feedback and running test projects throughout the buildout to ensure the project is built to spec as quickly as possible while maintaining integrity across the board.

In an attempt to meet in the middle we could add specific milestone success criteria to ensure things are moving in the direction as originally planned to the benefit of the network. More guidance by the Network Steward after Milestone 0 and Milestone 1 would be needed for this also so as not to delay the process of starting the project any further.

We are committed to executing to the best of our abilities to ensure a mutually beneficial end product that will continue to serve the PKT Community for years to come by facilitating execution and incentivizing talent to contribute towards the communities collective goals. We are also fully committed to getting to this end result as expeditiously as possible given so long as our proposal is approved and subsequently funded.

### Attention to prior art

**_Network Steward Guidance_**

There seems to be a significant number of other initiatives attempting to tackle this problem, in the proposal there was no mention of these projects. If the team has initimate knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses of these projects then a stronger proposal would be one which explicated why the team is proposing the platform that it is, rather than considering to adopt or modify one of the existing projects. If the team does not have such intimate knowledge, then a stronger proposal would be one which includes a research aspect in order to gain further insite to guide additional steps in the project.

Some examples of other vote funding projects include:

https://docs.snapshot.org
https://aragon.org/vocdoni
https://www.boardroom.info
https://gateway.metagov.org
https://commonwealth.im
https://www.loomio.com
https://mirror.xyz/race
https://otherinternet.substack.com/p/uniswap-interest-groups
https://forum.cosmos.network/t/proposal-draft-use-the-forum-to-improve-governance-process/5530

**_Wrkforce Team Response:_**

We have reviewed all of the above options and the key difference is they offer only governance solutions. Wrkforce proposes a solution to both governance and the most important aspect of (in our minds) which is accountability coupled with execution of projects. As outlined in our milestones the big value add here is not just allowing the community to vote on what projects are important to them, but to also allow them to keep track of projects to be able to see where Network Steward funds have been allocated and how things are coming along in an organized fashion.

In our proposal the voting mechanism and governance process accounts for roughly 150 labor hours, but after completion we may choose to incorporate one of the options listed above based on results of funding rounds and data acquired in the process. This would be covered by proceeds of facilitating the funding of projects through the platform, not directly through NS funding for development of this project.

### Clarify KYC and vote tallying processes

**_Network Steward Guidance_**

We observed that the vote tallying process is not exactly explained, in particular: Can one person vote on multiple projects in one round. If yes, is their weighted vote "split" between the projects they vote for or is it applied multiple times (Approval voting). We consider approval voting to be simple and we do not identify any specific associated risks at this time, or likewise for any of the related multi-winner voting systems (proportional approval voting, sequential proportional approval voting).

Secondly, the KYC process could be somewhat clarified to explain where peoples' personal data will be stored. In particular, if a 3rd party KYC provider is used, what information will that KYC provider be sharing with the team.

**_Wrkforce Team Response_**

Yes, the goal is to allow individuals to vote on multiple submitted projects with the amount of their vote able to be split during each funding round.

For KYC, we will be using a 3rd party provider to handle this. Specifics will be Name of user and wallet address likely. We will seek additional feedback from the NS at this stage of development.

### Dollar-denomination and clear use of funds

**_Network Steward Guidance_**

At the time when the project proposal was written, the value was PKT denominated with a PKT price estimated at 0.02 USD. As of this writing wrapped PKT is trading at just under 0.04, so these budgets are no longer accurate.

Rather than trying to predict the value of PKT at the time when the work is done, we recommend specifying the costs in a national currency and then allowing that coins from will be sold in order to pay for the costs of the work as those costs are born. A rise in the price of the coin will allow for more funds to be allocated toward projects.

Furthermore, we think a stronger proposal would include at least a rough breakdown of projected costs, such as that spend on development, management, and legal, for each round of the project.

**_Wrkforce Team Response_**

Development: $170,000.000
Legal & Admin: $25,000

Quarterly: (expected to be covered by cost of fee for funding projects, not additional cost by NS)
$2,500 for security code audit
$2,500 for CPA/Legal expenses
$5,000 for on-going admin

\*Worth noting the actual cost on a per round of funding will vary based on the number of projects submitted and funded per round, which will vary also on the alotted amount of subsequent funding rounds based on network utilization.

## Project Status

- Being written...
