# PktPay Project

* Project Name: PktPay
* Contact Email: vkvinay@uvce.ac.in, vkvinay@protonmail.com
* Project participants:
  * vinay
  * *Other participants will be added as needed*
* Projected duration: 1.5 month
* Projected effort: 2 person-months
* Requested PKT contribution: 85 kilo PKT $2500 @ $0.03 +-10%
* PKT address to pay to: pkt1qxzq4nr70ql7mysxazmgszku0xfk6yre8fr9t3f


## Project summary
The objective of PktPay is to develop html widget and react component which will make Seamless PKT Cash Accept On any Website
## Project Relevance to the PKT Network
Pkt Cash has been lacking proper options for individuals & small businesses to easily accept Pkt Cash on the web. Pkt Cash is meant to be used; it’s meant to be spent. While the Pkt Cash ecosystem is still in its infancy, it’s more important than ever to make it easy for those who are supporting the project to use it no matter their level of technical ability.

Right now, most businesses either roll their own solutions or rely on 3rd party (multi-coin) processors. We need something that individuals and smaller Pkt Cash-focused businesses can use that’s as simple as a static QR code but much more powerful.

We need to get Pkt Cash into the hands of as many people as possible. Making it dead simple to use is one of the key milestones we need to achieve to get us there. We still think that payments is the killer app that’s been overlooked by most cryptocurrency projects and it’s our goal to have PktPay play a key role in ensuring that Pkt Cash is the currency people think of first when they go to send money online.

## Project deliverables

The key deliverable will be npm package and html widget

This deliverable is:
* New open source software
* Which will be available under the [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html) license
* The maintainer of this software will be: **vinay**
* https://github.com/vk-vinay/PktPay.git OR https://github.com/pkt-cash/PktPay.git if the network steward wishes it so



### Evolution of the prototype

The PktPay project will add the following features to the proof-of-concept prototype:

* Integration with any website will be done using simple html widget
* Widget will take input (payment address) in format p2wpkh 
* Ability to validate address
* Ability to generate Qr code
* Monitoring transactions and trigger callback functions
* Fiat currency support for pricing
* Donation goal 

## Core principles of the PktPay project:

* Always provide the option to integrate PktPay with a single line of HTML.
* Always provide the core functionality for free.
* Continue to develop all core functionality as an open source project (MIT license).


## Success criteria
* Deliverables npm package
* Widget integration to website with few lines of code
* Generate qr code with diserd amount
* Callback function trigger for  success or failure  pkt transaction
* Fiat currency support ( for now USD only)
* Set donation goal with progress bar
## Payments
All payments shall be made to `pkt1qxzq4nr70ql7mysxazmgszku0xfk6yre8fr9t3f`

## Milestones
The following are milestones for the progress of the project by which the network steward
can evaluate the success of the project.

### M0 Kickoff
initial work has been committed to project repo
At the kickoff of the project, the network steward will grant $1250  to the applicant and
the project will begin.

### M1
Milestone 1 Will Begin With Building Following Features.
Features expected to be completed include:

* **PktPay Logo**
* **Base Html Widget**
* **Address Validation**
* **Qr Code Implementation**
* **Donation Goal With Progress Bar**
* **Callback Function**
* **Fiat Currency Support**

Upon the completion of Milestone 1, a report will be written and the applicant will seek
approval from the network steward. The network steward will pay $750 for the completion of
this milestone.

### M2
Milestone 2 will focus on improvements to 1 Milestone. 
Specific features which will be used to validate Milestone 2
will include:

* **npm package**
* **documentation**
* **tutorial video**



Upon completion of Milestone 2, a report will be written and the applicant will seek
approval from the network steward. Upon approval, payment of $500 will be issued.

At this point the project will reach the end of it's explicit funding, however the applicant
commits to the long term maintanence of the PKT insight software and the network steward commits
to continuing interest in the evolution of the software.

## Legal

The applicant understands that the network steward is not a legal entity and no part of this
project constitutes any form of legal agreement. The applicant accepts that the network steward
exists thanks to the effort of volunteers and the applicant has no reasonable expectation of any
action, payment or communication from the network steward at any time. For their part, the
applicant has no binding commitment or obligation at any time as a result of their participation
in this project.

### Project results
- [x] initial work has been committed to project repo
- [ ] project kickoff payment request
  * 138888 PKT for $1250 @ $0.009/pkt  (https://www.bitmart.com/trade/en?layout=basic&symbol=PKT_USDT)
  * CALEB: I have personally advanced this payment to the applicant in transaction https://explorer.pkt.cash/tx/b416237a36e3cb1647144ea92cb07461b034e425f2a23b49a037859d8700ecb5 and I hereby request the payment be redirected to pkt1qtu5y64ln9n9mw3e88ydt28jgmu327ygme8y54t


